what do you get when you take poly
tubing and some keychains it's a way to
put your PVC projects together without
having them fall apart and without
having to use glue this and more stay
tuned on mechanical master
so why would you want to build something
that would pin things together well
first of all is if you build something
like this this camera dolly part of the
problem is that it doesn't fit into a
duffel bag all that well and that can be
a bit of a problem especially if you
want to be mobile so you want to make it
so you can take it apart no I did that
with this guy problem is is that now
that I use it and occasionally I'll like
not put it together properly I'll have
it on the floor I'll pick it up and then
lose pieces it's not cool so you want to
put something that will pin this
together and that's what this project is
all about keep in mind that you can use
this in the camera stabilizer project
had the shoulder mount project that we
have you have a multitude of other PVC
projects and a few more coming up for
light stands and whatnot with me and you
know basically what it comes down to is
that this little pin is an incredible
little prototyping tool that I use all
the time and I honestly don't think I
could live without it
so without further ado check out how the
build goes
so what you're gonna need for this
project is some quarter-inch poly tubing
you can get that at Home Depot or pretty
much any other hardware store some
keychains I got this at Staples and you
can get it a lot of different hardware
stores and stationery stores next you'll
need a drill a utility knife or a little
exacto knife pencil sharpener and a
couple of drill bits here we've got a
sixteenth and this is a 3/16 inch drill
bit now this is so simple it's
disgusting so what we're gonna do here
is I'm just going to take that out to
the side so everybody can see let's take
this label off here now what you want is
a pin that sticks about that far into
PVC and you add I don't know about that
much to it just to get the length that
you want and you cut that little guy off
at this point what I recommend you do is
put your eighth inch or 16th inch drill
bit into your drill and take it and just
drill a little tiny hole on the edge of
this little pin that you've just made so
be like this you get it all the way
through and that part is done now next
thing you got to do is take one of your
key chains and hook it in here now all
of this key chain is doing he's just
giving you a little tab so that you can
pull it out this makes your projects
disassemble if that isn't work next
thing I like to do is is that the tip of
this can sometimes get stuck in the hole
so I just kind of run it through a
pencil sharpener really quick just to
get a little tiny taper in it so we've
got a little taper in it the last step
and what we're doing here is just making
it into a little tiny spring pin is that
we're gonna take a slice right down the
center all the way along its length just
like that and so what we can do here now
is we can pinch the tube and squeeze it
together and it makes a nice tight
little spring pimp last and final step
really simple
get a drill bit that is slightly smaller
in diameter and then quarter inch tubing
and you throw it into your drill
just like this now any connections that
you have for your PVC tubing what you
can do is you choose whether you want it
to come in straight in here through the
top it all depends that's always kind of
your judgment make sure that you have
your PVC fitted and fit right down into
the fitting as far as it possibly go and
drill a hole all you have to do at this
point is you take that little spring pin
and you can stuff it down into your into
your PVC now you can get rid of this
little tag it does make noise but for
the most part that's locked down and
nice and tight problems I was having the
other day you can see right here this
just fell off it was kind of a pain in
the butt so there are some connections
where I want to rotate it you could do
one of two things one is to do different
keyed area so you could do one pin there
one pin there one pin their one pin
there just read rill the hole through
this or you can just make it fixed and
it's just a great way to lock everything
down so hopefully that helps you out and
get you going on your make-work project
thank you for watching and do me a favor
share this on Facebook on Twitter on
Google+ on any sort of social media site
that you have it would really help us
out another thing I'd like to ask
anybody is if I made these up and made
packages of them would you buy them and
could I send them to you I'm kind of
curious if there's a little bit of a
business in this if you're too lazy to
make these little pins maybe you can get
me to make them for you and put them in
a bag and send them off to you I'll talk
to you guys later
you